# Information

This repository contains programs, files and tips on how to develop and use the transmitted data from the Zybo Z7-20. It is the second stage in the data pipeline for the Zybo and over to a PC.

The following directories can be summarized as the following:

* `zybo/` Scripts for creating UBoot images and setup a Docker TFTP server on the PC.

* `out/` Generated images from the scripts in zybo/

* `PC/` A large collection of APIs, programs and tips on how to use the microphone array. It is here the beamforming algorithms resides. Here you will find the demo applications as well

Rapid Development on the Zybo using Baremetal uBoot


# Prerequisites

## TFTP Server
In order for the Zybo Z7 to boot using tftpboot, a running TFTP server is required. It can be configured, but the Zybo is initially looking for two files: `bitstream` and `ps.elf` generated by Vivado/Xilinx SDK. The Zybo will look at `10.0.0.1` and the default TFTP port `69`, but this can be configured in `zybo/`.

### Docker (Recommended)
It is not required to use a docker container, however a `Dockerfile` has been configured for a TFTP server located in `zybo/Dockerfile`. Please read the `zybo/README.md` before continuing.

Move to the Dockerfile:
```
cd zybo
```

Build the Docker-image:
```
dockerbuild -t tftpd .
```

Start the container:
```
docker run -it -d --rm --network=host -v YOUR_PATH:/var/lib/tftpboot --name tftp-server tftpd
```

Stop the service
```
docker kill tftp-server
```

## Setup (Ubuntu)

### 1. A TFTP Server
See: TFTP

### TFTPD-HPA
Install the TFTP server:

```
sudo apt install tftpd-hpa
```

Create the directory where the board will look for its files:

```
sudo mkdir -p /data/tftp
sudo chmod -R 777 /data/tftp
sudo chown -R nobody /data/tftp
```

Configure TFTP to your specified directory by adding the following content to `/etc/default/tftpd-hpa`:
```
# /etc/default/tftpd-hpa

TFTP_USERNAME="tftp"
TFTP_DIRECTORY="/data/tftp"
TFTP_ADDRESS=":69"
TFTP_OPTIONS="--secure -v"
```

Enable and restart the server:

```
sudo systemctl enable tftpd-hpa
sudo systemctl restart tftpd-hpa
```

### 2. Configured SD-card
1. Follow the steps in https://github.com/f4pga/symbiflow-xc7z-automatic-tester to configure the SD card with U-Boot

2. Run the script
```
./zybo/baremetal/configure.sh
```
3. Copy ./out/boot.scr to boot partition of SD-card

### 3. Bitstream and ELF
Copy your bitstream and ps.elf file to /data/tftp on your computer

### 4. Set a static IP-address
Set the ip address of the ethernet port that the zybo is connected to:
```
IPv4 address: 10.0.0.1
Netmask: 255.255.255.0
Gateway: 192.168.1.1
```

### 5. Requirements
python3
cython3
gcc
make

### 6. Config
Edit the config.json file in ./PC/src to your desired values

### 7. Make
Run:
```
make clean
make
```

### 8. Connections
Connect the zybo to the USB and ethernet port

### 9. Run your desired program
Run your desired program from ./PC/interface